Title:	Add sense id numbers
Stat:	open
Disp:	
Prio:	med
Cats:	dev
Reqtrs:	
AssdTo:	stuart

2010-11-11 19:05:00 stuart
  Add sense id numbers to database schema and requisite 
  changes in code.  See edict list discussion, "<xref> tags without
  a destination or with too many destinations", 2010-10-28 thru
  2010-11-04.

2010-11-15 17:35:00 stuart
  [note: the following attempt was abandonded]
  Add column 'key' (SMALLINT) to table sens, and column 'skey'
  (also SMALLINT) to table entry in mktables.sql.  sens.key will
  contain the sense id number and entr.skey will contain the largest
  sens.key value used to date in the entry's senses, -- when a new
  sense is added to an entry, entr.skey should be incremented 
  and its value assigned to sens.key
  value of entr.skey+1 and .  We can't use MAX(sens.key)+1 because
  if the last sense is deleted, then later a new sense is added,
  the new sense would end up with the key value used earlier by
  the deleted sense, which is undesireable (unless of course the
  new sense has the same semantics as the old, but that requires
  human intervention to determine.)

  Add code to jdb.setkeys() to set the sens.key and entr.skey
  values properly.  Allow for the additional columns in object.py,
  pgi.py.

2012-05-01 18:35:00 stuart
  After thinking about this a little more, decided to abandon the
  idea of tracking the max sense number used.  ISTM that the whole
  concept of changing a sense versus deleting, then adding a new 
  indepedent sense, is squishy and subjective enough that it is
  not worth the complexity required to handle in the corner case
  of the last sense.  Further, the primary customer of sense id
  numbers are people who want to do incremental updates to local
  databases, but the people responsible for maintaining sense id's
  coherently (that is making correct decisions regarding when an
  existing sense is changed vs delete and adding a new unrelated
  sense) is done by submitters who likely are not to have a good 
  understanding of the needs of the first group.

  What we will do is consider sens.sens numbers as the sense "key"
  and will add an additional table attribute, "ord", which will 
  control the display order.  When an entry is submitted, "ord"
  will be supplied based on the order of the senses in the Entr
  object (the way sens.sens in generated currently.)

  When editing an entry, each sense will be numbered with its
  (sequential) ord number.  The user may rearrange senses but
  the sense (ord) number needs to move with its sense and will
  be used by the submission code to match the senses in the
  submission with the corresponding sense in the the per-edit 
  entry.  Then the "ord" fields will be changed to match the
  order given by the submitter.  As mentioned above, of the 
  last sense is removed and sometime later a new last sense
  is added, and a jmdict xml user does an incremental update
  from the pre-remove xml to the post-add xml, it will appear
  that the last sense was a change rather than a delete/add
  (because it will have the same sens.sens number in both files).

  Made database changes and minimal api changes to provide
  support for "ord" column although it's not used for anything
  yet -- but can load jmdictxml and submit edited entries.

2012-11-27 07:05:00 stuart
  Had commited the changes described in previous two notes on
  that dates of the notes, in a separate clone of jmdictdb.
  However, after a number of merges and other changes I was
  unable to figure out how to get mercurial to move the changes
  in to the main repository on separate branch.  Consequently
  created patch files in the sensid clone for the only two
  significant changes:
    hg export -r e6fb23767103 > sid1.patch
    hg export -r b3ab9160923e > sid2.patch
  created branch "sensid" in new jmdict clone, applied the 
  patches with the "patch" command (had to manually enter each
  target filename but that's easy copy-paste from info patch
  prints).  Got three rejected hunk #1 in: python/lib/fmtjel.py,
  (sid1.patch) and fmt.py, fmtxml.py (sid2.patch), but all were
  trivially easily correctable conflicts in the copyright or
  version lines. 
  Commited the sid1 and sid2 changes seperately into branch
  "sensid".  First commit 4574f8195fa2 2012-11-26T13:20:33
  had wrong message.  Should have been:

    sid: add ord column to table sens (IS-197) 
     First step in implementing IS-197.  Adding 'ord' column
     allows 'sens' column to be used a long-term sense id.
     This rev allows loading and displaying (though not editing
     yet) jmdict entries with a sense id.

2012-11-27 14:22:00 stuart
  Set database patch level in pg/mktables.sql and patches/1001.sql
  to use patch level 1001 for a database with sensid's during
  development.  When we merge the sensid branch into the main
  branch, will change the patch level (and rename 1001.sql) to
  whatever the next regular patch level is at that time.

