Title:	Allow middot character in JEL restr texts
Stat:	open
Disp:	
Prio:	high
Cats:	dev
Reqtrs:	
AssdTo:	

2010-06-20 21:01:00 stuart
  In IS-136, the JEL grammer for 'jitem' was changed to use
  a middot character as the separator character between K and 
  R elements so that xrefs (which are parsed as 'jitems')
  would have a similar syntax to that used in the JMdict XML
  which also use a middot character.  See IS-136 for details.
  But because the 'jitem' syntax is K.R, it won't parse a
  restr text that is R.R ot K.K, or R.R.R.  But we need to
  be ables to express those restrintions, so have to find 
  some way to fix.  Jim Breen ran into and reported the 
  problem today.

2010-06-21 09:17:00 stuart
  One option (mentioned in IS-136) was to go back to using
  "／" as a K/R separator character.  But that has same 
  problem... there could be (and are) entries that include 
  that character in their kanji or reading text.  For example

    jmdict 2387130 Active {id:132602}
    文字数／インチ
    【もじすううインチ】
      1. [n] {computer terminology}
       ▶ CPI
       ▶ Character Per Inch    

  And it is also found in Examples entries.
  Perhaps an ascii slash (or other ascii character) could be
  used?

2010-06-22 15:42:00 stuart
  An alternative is to use the existing (although broken) 
  provision for double quoting values in tags.  If we fixed
  that so it works for "see=" and "restr=" tags, then we could
  simply do

    [restr="アジア・太平洋戦争"]
  or
    [see="アジア・太平洋戦争"・"アジア・たいへいようせんそう"]

  Problem: double quoted text is tokenized as QTEXT but for
  restrictions and xrefs (*1) we need to know if a japanese
  text string classifies as kanji or kana.
  Solutions: 
    Classify QTEXT when we tokenize it (QTEXT, KQTEXT, and
      RQTEXT?  hmmm...)
    Classify QTEXT when we parse it.
    Classify QTEXT when we use it (in the parser just before 
     we call the functions that create Restr or Xref objects.)
    Modify the utilty functions that create the Restr or Xref
     objects not to need to know if their argument is kanji
     or kana text.  When creating a Restr object, the text will
     be found in the object's Rdng list or in its Kanj list.
     Do we really need so say which we expect and complain 
     if we're wrong?   For Xref we can either classify the
     string in the function, or search the database first for
     a kanji match and if nothing found, then a reading match.

  (*1) We only need to make kanji/reading determination for
  xrefs if only one text string is given; if two are given
  then the first is kanji and the second is reading. 

2010-06-25 15:45:00 stuart
  Modified jelparse to accept QTEXT in addition to KTEXT and
  RTEXT in productions 'tagitem' and 'jtext' (which is used
  "TEXT EQL jrefs" part of 'tagitem'.  We do a kanji/kana
  classification on the qtext at that point 

  Also flattened the lists that 'tagitem' returns (actually
  it returns a list of such flattened lists because xrefs
  and restrs can produce multiple items) because I couldn't
  figure out what was supposed to be returned.  Corresponding
  changes made in bld_rdng() and sens_tags().

  Also change fmtjel.py to print restr values in double
  quotes if the value includes any special characters.
  Print stagr and stagk restrictions with an explicit "restr="
  (as before) but print restr (reading) restr restrictions 
  without the "restr=" (because reading text is much longer
  so let's not add any unecessary length.)

  Changed fmtjel.py to print restrs, then freq etc.  (Was
  previously in other order.) 

  Updated jelfmt tests for above changes.

  Also updated python/lib/tal/edhelp.tal to mention need to
  use double quotes for dotted kanji or readings, and python/-
  lib/fmtjel.py to put double quotes around kr text if it
  contains special characters.

2010-06-27 22:28:00 stuart
  Added some jelparse restr xref tests. In order to do this more
  conveniently, revised unitttest_extensions.readfile_utf8()
  to read multiple sets of test data and expected results data 
  from a single file.  

2010-06-27 22:29:00 stuart
  The following will be subjects of new Issues, but wanted to
  note them here for now...

  To do:
  * There is no point in jellex doing a kanji/kana classify; it
  could return a JTEXT items which we would treat as a QTEXT.
  Only other place distinction is made is main kanji and reading
  texts but we could classify at that point instead of in the
  lexer.

  * Longer term, do we need to classify the text at all (beyond
  JTEXT)?  Restrs can search both _rdng and _kanj lists and there
  will be a match in one or the other.  We could also do two 
  searches when resolving xrefs.
  I guess the main difficultly would be that errors would be
  detected far later leading to less specific error messages.
